# Analysis-of-Americans-Most-Prominent-Health-Issues

* This project has been created R language and R Studio environment on the analysis of the US Health issues.

* The “Centers for Disease Controls and Prevention” (CDC) is tasked with protecting America from “health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S.”. In recent years especially with COVID-19, the CDC has claimed to have America’s best interests in mind with their policies. Although it shouldn’t be, the CDC has been under scrutiny in many states and has been a political discussion. Regardless of peoples’ personal opinions, the health of our nation is at stake and the well being of its people is the most important thing. Therefore, the CDC “conducts critical science and provides health information that protects America against expensive and dangerous health threats” (source 5) responding when new ones arise. As the public’s health is absolutely a social issue, we as a group decided to take on the data surrounding America’s health so we could visualize any relationships in the data and see the facts at face value. In this report we will visualize some things to answer the questions we have about America its health and the CDC’s handling of the problems the US faces. As medical data is so important in the lives of the people it describes its important to use valid data and so first we will explain how we interpreted the to data to use.

* There often exists a problem in surveyed data where the number of polled people in a specific location is directly proportional to the population of that location. In other words, there are far more people polled in areas of large population than in areas of small population. This can create bias in the data when looking at the actual statistics because the numbers in the densely surveyed locations will far outweigh the totals of the lesser surveyed ones. This is a problem because that simply might not be true. Looking at our data, we hypothesized this would be the case as some states, specifically California, Texas and New York would likely be far out surveyed due to their sheer overwhelming population over states like Delaware, Michigan and Alabama. Therefore this would uncover the common social issue that comes with surveying data. In order to look into this we analyzed the distribution of the data.
